WHAT IS GIT :

	       	Git is a distributed version control system known for its speed, workflow compatibility, and open source foundation.
		 With Git, software teams can experiment without fearing that they'll create lasting damage to the source code.
		 Teams using a Git repository can tackle projects of any size with efficiency and speed.



WHY GIT :


		In today's scenario of real world problem solving mechanism Git has been so handy in continuous project development, version control and collaboration. Git acts like a portfolio for staging one's project which can be backed up, viewed and shared easily. Promotes easy collaborating from anyone from With version control we can keep track of any changes made with additional information like the person who modified, reason of modification, exact changes made and of course with the timestamp.      



A LIST OF GIT BASH COMMANDS:


1. git config --global user.name “[name]” :-  This command sets username, which aids in reviewing by whom the changes were made. 

2. git config --global user.email “[email address]” :- This command sets an email address, this inturn helps in tracking by whom the commit or merge activity was made.

3. git init :- This command initialises the existing directory as a git repository

4. git init [repository name] :- This command is used to create or initiate a new git repository.

5. git add [file]  :- This command adds a file from the working tree to the Staging area / current branch.

6. git add * :- This command adds one or more files from the working tree to the Staging area / current branch.

7. git add. :-  Stages all files in the entire repository to the Staging area / current branch. 

8.git rm [file] :- This command deletes the existing file from your working directory.

9. git status :- This command lists all the files that have to be committed.

10. git commit -m “[commit message]” :-This command records or snapshots the changes permanently in the version history of the repository.
